New experimental feature article: Explain errors and source code in Copilot (#2963)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/experimental-features/copilot-explain.md

---
title: Explain errors and source code in Copilot in Edge
description: Discover new experimental features to explain Console errors and source code by using Copilot in Edge
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 12/07/2023
---
# Explain errors and source code in Copilot in Edge

The **Console** and **Sources** tools in Microsoft Edge DevTools integrate with Copilot in Microsoft Edge, as an experiment, to help you understand complex errors and source code.

> When inspecting a webpage with DevTools, you often see errors and warnings in the **Console** tool. These errors and warnings can sometimes be difficult to understand and fix. By using the **Explain this error** feature, you get more information about the error or warning in Copilot in Edge and learn how to fix the problem.

Reviewer: a screenshot of either or both the Console / sources with a red box around the icon would be helpful here. I also suggest keeping part or all of the image ATF.

Reviewer 2: copied two images from below into the new h4 for Errors & h4 for Source code

## Enable the feature

#### Enable Copilot in Microsoft Edge

To enable Copilot in the Microsoft Edge:

1. Sign into Microsoft Edge. See [Sign in to sync Microsoft Edge across devices](https://support.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/sign-in-to-sync-microsoft-edge-across-devices-e6ffa79b-ed52-aa32-47e2-5d5597fe4674).

1. Make sure the Copilot icon (![The Copilot icon in the browser toolbar](./copilot-explain-images/copilot-icon.png)) is visible in the top-right corner of the browser toolbar. If it's not, go to `edge://settings/sidebar` in a new tab or window, then click **Copilot**, and enable **Show Copilot**.

#### Enable the feature in DevTools

To enable the feature to explain errors and source code in DevTools:

1. In Microsoft Edge, go to `edge://flags` in a new tab or window.

1. Start typing **Explain DevTools with AI**. The list of flags is filtered to show only the flag you're looking for.

1. In the **Explain DevTools with AI** flag, select **Enabled** from the dropdown, and then click **Restart** to restart the browser.

   ![The Explain DevTools with AI flag in edge://flags](./copilot-explain-images/flag.png)

> #### Use a standard browser window

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The feature only works if you aren't using DevTools in one of the following scenarios:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The feature only works in a standard browser window. It will not work if you use DevTools in one of the following scenarios:
```

* Browsing in an InPrivate window. [Learn more about InPrivate browsing](https://support.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/browse-inprivate-in-microsoft-edge-cd2c9a48-0bc4-b98e-5e46-ac40c84e27e2).
* Browsing with Kids Mode in Microsoft Edge. [Learn more about Kids Mode](https://support.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/learn-more-about-kids-mode-in-microsoft-edge-4bf0273c-1cbd-47a9-a8f3-895bc1f95bdd).
* Using DevTools in a Microsoft Edge WebView2 control.
* Using DevTools in a standalone Progressive Web App window.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Explain errors and warnings in the Console tool

> To explain an error or warning in the **Console** tool:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Copilot to explain an error or warning in the **Console** tool:
```

Reviewer 2: added

  
   The corresponding errors are shown in the **Console**:

   ![The demo web page in Edge, with the DevTools Console next to it, showing a few error messages](./copilot-explain-images/some-console-errors.png)

1. In the **Console** tool, click the **ask Copilot: "Explain this error"** (![The explain error icon in the Console](./copilot-explain-images/explain-icon.png)) button next to one of the error messages.

   Copilot opens in the Microsoft Edge sidebar, the error message is pasted in Copilot, followed by an **Explain the error message from DevTools console** message. Copilot then responds to the request with an explanation of the error:

   ![Copilot in the Microsoft Edge sidebar, showing the error message and the explanation](./copilot-explain-images/copilot-error-explanation.png)

1. In Copilot, enter another question to get even more details about the error, or if the explanation doesn't make sense. You can keep on conversing with Copilot to get more information about the error.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Explain source code in the Sources tool

> To explain code in the **Sources** tool:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Copilot to explain code in the **Sources** tool:
```

Reviewer 2: done

---

> title: Explain errors and source code in Copilot in Edge

Reviewer 2: strike "the", just "DevTools"

> description: Discover new experimental features to explain Console errors and source code by using Copilot in Edge

Reviewer 2: Discover new experimental features to explain DevTools Console errors and source code by using Copilot in Edge

author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 12/07/2023
---

> # Explain errors and source code in Copilot in Microsoft Edge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Explain errors and source code in Copilot in Microsoft Edge DevTools
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### The "Explain this error" feature

When inspecting a webpage with DevTools, you often see errors and warnings in the **Console** tool. These errors and warnings can sometimes be difficult to understand and fix. By using the **Explain this error** feature, you get more information about the error or warning in Copilot in Edge:

![Copilot in the Microsoft Edge sidebar, showing the error message and the explanation.](./copilot-explain-images/copilot-error-explanation.png)<!-- instance 1 of using this png -->

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### The "Explain these lines of code" feature

When inspecting a webpage you didn't build, you might not be familiar with the source code displayed in the **Sources** tool. By using the **Explain these lines of code** feature, you get more information about the source code in Copilot in Edge:

![Copilot in the Microsoft Edge sidebar, showing the source code and the explanation.](./copilot-explain-images/copilot-code-explanation.png)<!-- instance 1 of using this png -->

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Supported scenarios

> The **Explain DevTools with AI** features are for use in standard browser windows, and are not available in the following scenarios:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These features are for use in standard browser windows, and are not available in the following scenarios:
```
